You obviously see it, but and only then. The Peer Review people would see your recording so they could give you feedback.
But I have not actually requiring them to give you feedback on the presentation as well.
That that has not been part of the period.
The peer feedback is primarily on whatever you've written.
Whatever form that takes so I'm trying to think of another way to do this, so that everybody could change.
Have a chance to see those. Yeah. And then, like I did before before canvas is, we put them into a discussion form.
And I'd say, Okay, you know, you need to give everybody at least a little bit of feedback on the recordings that takes a lot more time.
But Dalton something to comments on that.
Yeah, I have a quick question. Maybe I'm confused with this.
The presentation that we did last week or if we're in the live class, is that the same thing as the demo video?
Or those separate things.
Okay. Okay.
No, that would be the demo. Video. Yeah, it's the to tame 8 to 10 min presentation.
And really, so that presentation really is the idea that you're demoing the technology and the instrumental application.
I'm right. You're not.
Yeah, I'm just, I'm just bringing there because I don't think I actually got to like actually, Demo, a product.
But I I I did, since in my paper.
Right? Yeah, and so yeah, make sure that this is, this is an important point.
It's important that you're explaining that the technology in the context of some instructional situations that doesn't mean you can't talk about the technology as a technology.
But then make sure you talk about also how it applies to a setting where people are trying to learn something right? It could be a school setting, a training classroom and online, you know, informal learning environment, whatever it happens to be.
Okay.
All right.
So what? So one of the things I was thinking of is that what we could do is I could put a discussion form up for that week where that would just basically be a container for recordings and so if you were gonna do a recorded session you know, rather than doing a live presentation which
means you would be on the Zoom recording. You could put it into that forum, and then you could collect feedback from other people.
The expectation would be then that all of us would be looking at those recording.
And you know, watching them for 10 min and providing a little bit of feedback to to whoever it was.
So the whole point of having the discussion Forum would be so that people could review it.
Adam.
I like what I like about that, or something, cause I do really appreciate the like.
Yeah.
High flex model of the class and the program on is that like, somehow, we're getting a repository and learning about all of the other products, because, like, I only get to get exposed to and the ones that get presented in class and like it was even cool like I even learned about products just through the
paper example. Our papers you shared, and so if there was some way for us to have some way of having that repository would be great, one of which could be the presentations.
Yeah.
Yeah, Right presentation. Yeah. And what you know, what we could also do is if we did.
This is, say, post your presentation here, and but also allow it for people who wanted to post their paper there.
I mean no one. I don't think it would be a problem if you put the paper there, but the formal paper I would wanna capture in the in the tool and the peer feedback.
I'd I wanna capture in the assignment tool.
Also because then it's much more easier for me to administrate that.
But the informal sharing could happen in that discussion form, and there wouldn't be a requirement for you to post your paper there.
But if you wanted feedback from other people, you know, then maybe that would be the place to do that, especially if you missed the peer feedback.
Session. You know the draft. Of your drafts a few days late.
You won't get into Peer Review the way this time until is set up.
Now. So any other thoughts on that. What's that?
That things are also really, I also really do like I I really like the peer review tool.
Yeah.
That canvas has that's like that's also pretty cool, cool tool, cool technology in and of itself.
Yeah, they do a good job with that. I mean, I was.
Hmm!
I'm very happy with that overall. We've once I figured out how to do it last year, when I was doing it, I was keeping them anonymous reviews, and I can see why you might do that in some classes, but it it became it.
Seemed to be more trouble than it was worth, because if someone had trouble accessing a file they didn't know who to talk to they didn't know who to contact.
I didn't know who to contact. I didn't know who to contact.
I didn't know who to contact only I would have known, and I didn't really know right away that they didn't.
So anyway.
Are you able to see as the instructor what other like, what might Peers said about my paper for feedback?
If that makes sense, okay, cool.
I can see. I can see everything. Yeah, yeah, I don't.
There's I don't know if there's I don't know if there's any way for you sending messages to other people.
Do you guys have a chance to? I don't even know how that works.
As a student. Can you send a message to another student in the class through the canvas tool?
Like, if you go to the inbox, can you send things out that way?
Do you have that feature?
I guess I need to learn more about this. As a student.
Maybe I should go to the class they offer here.
Then it's another couple of hours a time. Who knows?
Well, if yeah. So, anyway, for those of you who use canvass, or we know it better than I do.
If you got suggestions, let me know. So I think what we'll do.
What I'll do is.
Set that discussion form up. I just don't want it to be too complicated, at least I'm gonna see if I'm gonna play with that a little bit and see how it works.
We have. I have like 3 or 4 weeks to do that.
Our next next assignment. I think our next draft papers do on April twelfth, which is a month away.
Essentially, you have a week break next week, and then we have 2 more live sessions.
After this one, where we're talking about different content before the next draft is due.
So maybe we can just try that and see how it works.
Raquel. What do you think about that? I mean you would.
You've been doing. You did a recorded presentation last time do you think it'd be helpful to have a place to put that so?
Other people could see it more visibly.
Yeah, I think, yeah, I think that should be. Oh, good.
Okay, so that's what we'll do. And so and so then the the expectation is that we're giving feedback to everybody, which I'm happy with.
I'm okay with that you're doing that in the live session, anyway, for those of you who are part of the live session.
And so this kind of helps, you know, bring other people into that feedback session, because the people who are doing it asynchronously right now don't have to give present presentation feedback to anybody, and I think that's probably an important part of just not only the class.
But also your professional network here. Get to know each other a little bit more. All right.
Okay, well, tonight, we are moving forward tonight. We are going to be looking at.
We're in session. 7. So here we are.
We're shifting gears now from just presenting information or accessing information or generating information.
The whole idea of content to. Now we're talking about engagement for the next 3 weeks.
And yeah, obviously, you could do a whole course and a half on just engagement.
With any one of these technologies, really and so what this is more of a survey, though.
So we're gonna look at several different types of emerging technology areas and talk about how the use of those tools can help us improve the engagement of our of our learners really, but also of the faculty of the teachers.
You don't get engaged students, usually, if you don't have an engaged faculty or teacher or facilitator or tutor, whatever term you want to use and so I think it's important that the technologies we choose and the activities we choose to do with them are
also engaging for the faculty member. So the faculty member, the teacher, let's just.
I just use that word. Teacher should also be engaged. And that's you know, there's motivational components to that.
But there's also a fact that the technology has to be usable, accessible, practical, and and the tech, the teacher has to have the skills just like the students have to have some skills to use these technology as well access to resources is one thing access to technology is one thing but access
just access doesn't get you the point of being able to work well with it, either as as as a teacher or a learner.
So anyway. So for this week there were a couple of things I asked you to look at, and I know many of you were probably working on your papers and things like that.
So, if you hadn't gotten to this. The nice thing is, these are all really simple to look at.
They're all, I think they're all very straightforward.
They're really there to help you kind of pick something to start exploring around within.
And so we can go through. We can go through the we can kind of tour through them and see what you've found.
If you found something that was interesting. But before we do that I think it'd be useful to hear from anyone who has had experience with these kinds of technologies.
We're gonna we're talking really about essentially augmented reality, virtual reality.
You know anything immersive reality, the tools you know, one of the videos there talks about AR.
VR. Mr. And Xr. Do you remember what Mr. Was?
Mixed reality, right? So it's not necessarily. It's more of the hybrid, but not necessarily like an AR mixed.
So maybe a different mix where you actually are doing things in real reality, and things are real, virtual reality and somehow combining them.
Not with an AR kind of lens, necessarily so mixed.
Reality and there's this continuum that you can think about it from mostly real to mostly virtual.
And along those lines. So Xr is the overall term.
That's often used for this, just to the X is the placeholder for whatever letter you might want to use.
So have any of you use this as as a as a learner to try to actually learn something where?
Well, maybe let's start with the first question, have you played around with these technologies, or use them like for other reasons, like entertainment gaming those kinds of things?
Yes. Can you indicate? Yes, with a hand raise or verbal, or a chat? Yes.
Sadia. Okay. Requel, Adams, and no, but wants to. I mean, I do, too.
I have the last 3 years I have had to talk myself out of buying buying. You know.
Nice VR, V. Are to couple of Vrs sets for home.
I haven't bought one yet. I don't know if I will.
I probably will, but I know it's gonna take my time.
So that's not very many of us. That's not pretty much. Dalton. Have you used this stuff as a, you know, for your own, basically your own personal use?
Yeah, I got one from a consulting gig because I was. You know, they needed me to help create that product.
Nice.
As a structural designer, I guess, and so they they gave me one which is really great for free.
So I use it to test their product and give them feedback on how to improve it, how to, you know, improve the interface.
Things like that, and and then they would. No, I still have it.
They say good back.
But I've also tried to partner with another organization that I, it's a very small startup, just, you know, handful of folks usually like one or 2, and they were trying to do.
They're not doing a study in Stanford. So the the CEO is a mass student.
At Stanford. Graduate School of education. He's also partnering with a principal investigator.
There to have. You know, students at the grad school create. VR worlds and create lesson plans using there world building feature. I guess.
So they just kind of sort of choose the artifacts are in the world, and we wanted to test that out with middle school students.
But one problem that we ran into is that our filter, our web web filter blocks, Facebook at at our campus.
And we have. And so we tested it. I you know I spent hours and hours with the tech team, white listing all these different sites where I've Meta Facebook.
Whatever, and it was a huge hassle. And so what I think, one of the articles that we that that we were reading had a link to about why schools are slow to adopt this.
And it's because of things like this is that it?
Yeah.
The cost. People don't know how to use it. People don't know how to support it with the infrastructure, and it's been really nightmare, and eventually we had to drop it so we couldn't actually pull it off.
Interesting. So so, okay, so that some of you have used it basically for play.
Have any of you used it to actually try to learn something like intentional learning.
What do you think about that?
Hi, Amanda, and Hello, Everett! Thanks for joining us.
We're talking about using kind of like. VR or augmented reality.
Some sort of immersive reality as a play thing first, and a few people have that experience.
And now the question is, have you actually tried to use it?
To learn anything important, and so Dalton is going to be a space station person someday, and has to learn how to navigate through the space station.
So you were trying to actually learn something. What was your intentional learning?
Well, I've seen maps and videos, but I never really understood exactly how the specification is oriented.
And the videos. You know, it's hard to kind of grasp it. So I was like, Okay, let me download.
Yeah.
It's free on oculus, downloaded it, you know.
Got a sense of it, but I got really major emotion sickness, because you're sort of are grabbing things and flying in 0.
G, that's pretty rough, and that's something that one of the startups have told me is that the motion sickness factor is a big one.
That is often ignored or sort of bypassed, because they don't want to let that get in the way of adoption and selling.
Yeah. And I wonder if they're if people have gotten good design ideas on how you can reduce that they probably have are working on that, too, because it's a real problem. Raquel, you say you've used the map the app monthly. What does that one do?
Oh, that one is to like, learn languages. No, it takes you like the experience of going to the country if you wanna learn it.
That Italian. You go to Italy. It is pretty good it is uncomfortable, because it's also the oculus.
So at some point it it gets really. Hmm.
Not comfortable, but I really like how you are exposed to real life situations.
Right.
So you can actually practice what you're learning. I don't think this can be something that you learn, only using the app.
If you're taking a class, or you're like trying to learn by yourself, and you learn the grammar, and then you use the app to practice.
Right it did. And did you use it for? Do you? Do you still use it for that?
I think this is a great.
When I started studying Italian, I I got this one to start practicing.
Then I kind of forgot about it. I've been trying to use it again.
And I'm like, Wow, this is now that I have some more practice, like in classes.
I can use it with the app.
Cool. Okay, alright. So so a little bit, maybe not very many, though right?
And how about anyone who have any of you use this actually in your teaching or training practice, or your instructional design practice this immersive reality stuff I mean, it's it's been around for literally more than 2 decades.
I, colleagues doing augmented reality, projects for this U. S.
Coast guard back around the year 2,000, you know where they were creating.
Hey-up display, you know, basically glasses that would have have a display on.
So when the Coast Guard employee or the members would look out over the the port, they could see a ship, and they could see different data layers.
Where was it flagged? What was the tonnage?
Where is it going? Where did it come from? What's a cru like all those kinds of things?
And that was back that was like 23 years ago, so that the technology has been around for a very long time.
And yet!
We have one person, who's used the NASA stuff.
The AR in class. Another person whose company is interested in it.
It probably hasn't done, or may not have done it.
I mean the only the only way I've used it is just basically talking about it as a thing in classes, but never actually using it in class.
In part because I mean, if we were in person we would be doing this session would be in the library because they have.
They have a set of headsets, and we could run through some some of their sample things that we could do or even get something that will use.
But we don't have that accessible. It's really difficult to do here.
So not so much. Let me let me share this different screen here real quickly.
This is a picture.
Of the gardener. Pip, cycle, like a technology hype cycle for higher education.
This is 2021, and I think the one for 2022 looks very similar.
But what I wanna point out here is that this idea of immersive technology and education, that's really what we're talking about.
The way they see this is that still there's still it's still in in the the high hype hype area.
In other words, there's a lot of talk about it.
But and there's a lot of hopes for it, or a lot of promise for, but not a lot of realization.
Yet it still has yet to kind of dive down into this trough of despair, disillusionment they called, I call it the spare.
You know where where it's like, you know, too hard.
We're just not gonna do this, but eventually, these technologies that do make it.
And most of the ones that are on here will make it through here eventually.
Not all of them, but many of them. We'll go through this, and then we'll get out to this area where they call it the plateau productivity, where it actually becomes more usable in class.
There's more content available. It. The headsets are probably easier to use the technology is is more available for us.
Or maybe the technology needs gets lower because they're become more efficient.
But if you look@thelittleblack.hereifyouseethatblack.that tells us that their experts are thinking, this is 5 to 10 years away yet from being like out of the emerging space, and so that puts us out to 2026 to twenty-thirty some of
you may not be teaching anymore if you're teaching now, you may be onto administrative roles or doing something else.
So it's gonna it that this is why I you know, this is such an emerging technology, even though it's been around in some form for over 20 years.
It's a long. It's been a long time.
Yeah, Adam, actually, we could do that. And we could we could either line that up with a class meeting.
The question is, can we do a field trip to the library?
We could certainly do that, but I think we can also do it a different time.
The live. There's a librarian, a technology support person at a library who basically runs that whole lab.
It's a maker space. It's a it's a, you know, a 3 a VR space.
It does a lot of different things. It's a digital media production space.
And they would love to host us. And so if there's interest in that, we could certainly set that up either either in evening probably would be the best. And so I'd have to find out when they're really available in theings. But I'd love to do that Dalton.
Sorry. Did you mean that the school has VR headsets that we can, that we could use?
Yeah, yeah, they they bring, what's that?
And we just check it out like a book, and we just check them up.
Or does it have to be in a class center?
Oh, I don't know if you can check them out.
Probably not. But you can use them in their lab, and so they have a couple of.
They have a couple of stations that we could use, and I don't know if it's 3 at a time, or something like that.
2 or 3 different stations, but it'd be something we could do.
So if you're interested in that, let me know, and we will.
We'll start a communication to see what we can plan.
Okay.
What would be the best? How should we indicate interests like email? You?
You can message me through canvas. Yeah, just some time this week, and we'll set it up for probably probably mid mid to late April is probably when we would do it.
Okay.
I don't cause it's we went spring break, coming up, and.
Yeah. Well, yeah, sometime in April. That's what we would shoot for.
Cool.
Okay. And I know there's some other people who might be interested in as well, and it actually it would be a reason to, you know, meet people in person and the class at least some of the people imagine that.
Yeah, there it is. Dalton's got a link right there.
There's probably more information there that I'm aware of, but I do know the people who run it so hopefully.
We can get that going all right. Well, so.
I think I think so. It's emerging.
It's emerging for us. It's emerging for all of us.
It seems. And so for these different the different resources. I asked you to look at.
Did you find any of these interesting worthy of note? This one talks about the potential.
You know the state of Exr. You know, in education and training.
Whatever that is, windows popping up.
You know the potential, the potential, the potential. You know, I think, that there's a there's a lot more.
Well, there's a lot of VR that's being used in in like industry.
Now especially in, I'm aware of it in the production field, but also repair fields.
Where people are putting on VR goggles and manipulating obvious in the design fields, you know, for designing and actually testing things out in design.
A lot more than obviously a lot more than it used to be, because it didn't used to be anything.
But it's becoming something that it's becoming a skill set, that a lot of a lot of technical fields are relying on.
So!
I think this will do. Yeah, I liked. So my company helps one thing that we hope schools do is that they run like a nursing program or some sort of other clinical program online.
We will support them with finding placement sites for students, so like you might be enrolled at Uscs nursing program.
But you live in Montana and it's really hard for Usc to do that.
Yeah.
So we'll help with that on. But of course the clinical experience that, like a nurse in Montana, has in role Montana would be different than something like of an urban area, and then they're they're training is perhaps gonna be different.
Right.
What VR then allows you to do is potentially get exposed to more rare medical scenarios, and also have, like more at certain scenarios in a lower stakes.
Environment rather than like, you know, treating a patient. That's severely ill.
Hmm!
And another contact. So like, I think it's really interesting for things like medical education.
And the ways that it can help like potentially train a stronger medical workforce.
Yeah, whenever we have problems with training enough people because of location, you know, to the extent we can put some of that training experience into a simulated environment.
You know, virtual reality is a great, basically, we're all.
It's all seeming right. It's not real.
It's all simulated. But a simulated environment like that, the more likely we are to start meeting some of that need nursing is a classic one.
Where there's just not enough practical experience available to train nurses.
Do the way we, the way we always have, train them for us to be getting enough out of them, basically through the pipeline or lack of a better term.
Right.
And so some of that can be done with. VR. That's great.
They're using virtual reality machines for training.
Truck drivers. You can learn how to. You can.
You know, they've been using simulations sort of like virtual reality simulations for learning how to airline, to fly airline airplanes.
Hmm!
Airlines right so. And you don't learn everything that way.
But you can get a lot of learning that way in this simulators.
We've been using simulators in my my backgrounds in the Navy, but even when I was in the navy, after duty a long, long time ago, 25 years ago, simulators for learning how to essentially drive a submarine through make holes in in the ocean
with the summary, and moving it up and down. Those kinds of things.
Or you know, basically practice fighting wars in in these computerized spaces this, this is like, 30 years ago.
So the technology was pretty limited back then, but it was still things you could do that we're a lot better than trying to do everything in practice, because you couldn't do that stuff in practice.
You can't like, yeah, do that operational stuff in real life, just because it wasn't possible.
Dalton.
Few years ago we hosted Jeremy Bailenson, who is a Stanford, VR.
One of the main guys there. And he had this really great story about how you know the way that he framed as a VR is good for replicating experiences that we can't just do safely right.
I think our we just talked about that, too, like disaster scenarios.
You know. Chemistry experiments exploded that kind of thing.
And he has this. He has this really interesting story about an organization abroad reached out to the Nfl.
And said, Hey, we wanna give our customers who are living abroad who cannot go to the games right?
But they are like ultra wealthy. They want to get a court side or field side experience, and so Jeremy started helping them out with that kind of thing.
I was like, you know, that this is cool everything, but you know what else would be cool would be to have VR being used in your company to train things like sexual harassment or other compliance.
These things in a way that it actually teaches more about empathy.
So he showed this one scenario. There's more stuff in this lecture here.
This is the latest one they gave last year. I'll drop it in the chat and about using VR.
To actually train for empathy. So like you're you start in a scenario.
You look at the wall, there's a mirror there, and you are.
Maybe somebody on a wheelchair. All of a sudden, and so like sort of emboding other personas can be powerful, and we are.
I thought that that was pretty unique.
Yeah, there was a experience in the second life. This was about a decade ago, or more, when second life was a thing.
It was our. It was our, you know, our 2 dimensional VR space.
We could walk around and and they it was by one.
I think it was Uc. Davis, and essentially they. You would walk into a room, and you would get us.
You get a sense of just a little bit of what it might be like to have.
Psychotic episode like a like a paranoid schizophrenia, where you might hear voices.
And so, before going into this room, you'd have to actually kind of checkup box for just a disclaimer, saying, Hey, look!
You know you may be disturbed by this experience, and you go into this room and they're away.
They did. The audio was really interesting. So you just kind of hear these voices and it wasn't, you know.
Probably very little little bit like reality. But for most of us who never had that experience, it was pretty eye-opening, or, you know, kind of thinking about this.
What this would be. This would be very disturbing if this was actually going on.
This is how I was living my life to help generate some empathy, but also just a little bit of understanding what it might be like.
We're just the complexity of that. The challenges that that might bring about that.
And that was just with simple 2 dimensional space. I don't think it's still active, because most of the most of that kind of second life space is gone away.
This is a little picture I'm showing here. Asu, Arizona State University has partnered with dreamscape dreamscape is a company that does these immersive reality.
Experience is really for entertainment, and I think they have them.
They have them in some. A couple of metro areas I'm not sure if there's anyone in the Northern California area.
But there's probably la. But anyway, they built a biology lab experience with Asu, and it's A, it's a multi-level.
It's like 2 or 3 levels I'm not sure if they have a space here.
But this, this is like being inside. So you get into this VR world, and you're in this pot, and you're moving around.
And you're going into an ecosystem, and you're trying to.
You get to learn more about the biology of an ecosystem essentially. And you could read through this if you want.
This is one of the experiences we're actually sitting down.
They have another experience where you're actually walking around on these different levels.
And in a build, a room they built out, and it doesn't show, and it's really pretty powerful because you are walking around.
And you have other people. And so you can interact with the other people in space as well.
I did that couple of summers ago. It's just a demonstration to walk through.
It's about a 15 min adventure. But this is a project that was probably cost 20 or $30,000 at 30, 20, or 70,000 several 1 million dollars to build out and to program. And it.
And it was serving essentially one course, kind of as a demonstration project and to support research around using these kinds of things and learning and while it was impressive, we were.
I was there with a group of about 30 people. We were all very impress with it, but also thinking, Well, you know, we don't have resources like this, and you know it's very bound in space.
But this is just limitations. It's hard not to focus on the limitations.
You know, and what they were trying to do is to get this, to think beyond just the limitations, because at some point, if this does get to the plateau of productivity.
Then it has to be. It has to be cheaper. It has to be less difficult to build.
It has to be more more customizable, and so that so that we can actually use it especially if we wanna get beyond.
You know the place of like Asu.
That has incredible internal resources because of their 200,000 students or so, who go to school there.
So just another example of where kind of where this is in education, in some places there are lots of other VR labs, a lot of major universities have them.
We have some faculty on our campus are doing. VR.
Things, in kinesiology. For one thing, with the study of motion and AR kind of things.
Here's another example. This is what I gave you. This is a link from accent, you know.
Big consulting company primarily for businesses, but these are the different ways that they're trying to sell.
Xr. Solutions. Immersive reality solutions, you know, across an entire, an entire.
You know, business. Essentially, you know, the workers training training applications, building a space and metadverse the merchandising.
You know the you know, the immersive, I mean the or the like.
The 300 sixty-b objects you might see one of the biggest applications of those is sales right where you can take a look at this.
This merchandise and spin it around.
You can take a look at it. You can kind of maybe explode it apart, dive into it.
If you go shopping for I don't know you're gonna do home remodeling or something are you, gonna you know, change the color of your paint or change your kitchen.
You can take a picture of your own space, and then you can overlay.
You know the new stuff on it, and that look how fantastic it would be, and you can try out different looks like, have you bought online glasses online for those of you who wear glasses.
You can try the glasses on your face. You put your your put your face in your face in there you pick a pair of glasses, and it'll put it right on your face and you can move it around.
See how you like it. All that kind of stuff. So you know, so businesses are certainly picking up on this a lot more than most schools are.
Research universities have labs doing this schools not so much.
Some do.
This was another link I had there. This is the military applications this is once again. This isn't.
This is a little old right? But this is what they were doing.
Well, actually, this is from 2022. So it's not that all is, this is just an overview of some of the things that they're doing.
Why do they do such cool things?
Well, couple of reasons. They do a lot of dangerous stuff. And so, having a simulated environment to practice, that is pretty important, they also have pretty deep pockets.
They are the our pockets. Essentially, they get a lot. They have a lot of budget to do a lot of these things, and they work with a lot of universities because they can pay for their time.
They can pay for research grants and those kinds of things.
So anyway.
Any comments about any of these.
Oh, the the military one made me think, and I didn't.
Actually I should have done the research on this if, like the department of Ed.
Has any sort of white paper, or any anything that's trying to research or set aside funding for VR. Within education.
Or if it's or as if, as you said, it's just 2 hyped, and at the point where they just aren't doing that.
Yeah, I don't know if there's a specific program in the department of that oversees this.
I'm sure that the National Science Foundation has got money going out to people who are working on projects in this area.
I know one of the fact. There's a faculty over at University of North Carolina.
Stephen King, I think, is his name, not the not the famous Stephen King, the less famous Steven King, and he has, he teaches a course.
In, in, I think, in metaverse, but basically in virtual reality.
And he he does this as an online course, and he senses. He sends out to every student.
I headset, you know, so they use it during the class, and then they send it back.
Back to him. And then he does research on this. And he basically teaches in the program a lot like ours but he's got a he's got a research unit to actually do the work.
He's got Grant funding to support that. So I know there's money out there.
I'm not sure if the department of AD has that.
But you could do it easy to search for that. Yeah.
It. There was a reading on him right?
Yeah, there may have been. Yeah.
Yeah, I thought that was cool. We kind of like blogged about his. Yeah, that I think it was that one, that that one, yeah.
This one? Yeah, actually, here it is. Yeah.
And just seeing him go through like even the vetting process of like this is what these different products offer, and then running his class, and what that was like.
Yeah.
And I think this started at the onset of the pandemic, too, which is just a really interesting yeah, which is a really interesting time for him to be doing this.
So I thought this was really interesting.
Right? Right? Right? Yeah. I met him. We were both talking at a a technology conference in Las Vegas.
It must have been in either the fall of 2020, or more likely the spring of 21, and they just had us, each come up for like 10 min to talk about our stuff.
I was talking about the hybrid, flexible teaching, and he was talking about teaching in virtual space.
And so, anyway, yeah, lot of lot of good stuff that they're doing there.
But they have. They have resources, to do it, and I don't know if this is filtering out into the schools in North Carolina at all, or if that's part of their agenda, I'm not quite sure on that a lot of times when Department of education is Providing money
to universities. Do this kind of work. They want to improve.
Often the education at the university, but they're also very interested, especially in the world of colleges of education, to kind of have that filter down, then into the K 12 space, so that what we're doing is not just, you know, for you know, for those you know, for those in universities.
But also for those in the schools themselves. Yeah.
Okay, yeah, there it is. Thank you for reminding me.
I also had a link in here. This is this is the University of Michigan, and all the different projects that they have been doing around this.
Their center for academic innovation.
And so there! They've got a couple of 22 projects they talked about already, and you can take a look and explore again.
Look at any of these.
So this is a, you know, mythology.
I did show you this guy had this video. I asked you to watch.
This is the that's the person who was it was talking about it, teaching in virtual reality, space, construction, education.
So we're talking still, college level stuff for the most part immersive audio design.
This is really interesting. Using 3, you know, 3D. Spaces for virtual reality, for audio, you know.
You know sound design in in space.
Is there a similar list for Sfs you projects going on, related to VR.
Yeah. Not much. What? Yeah. No, however, actually, that my, the contact of the library, he might know more about it.
I know that the Kinesiology department had some Grant money to do projects in this area.
And I think there may be some things going on in the more of the computer science area where they would be programming in virtual reality and kind of creating those spaces, and that that if they're creating a spaces there also might be some work going on in the creative arts area in our
cinema basically our becca or cinema.
With digital digital stuff.
Yeah, I see. Joshua Mcveigh Shultz, does that ring a bell?
You wanna some kind of grant? Oh, and it Ns. F. Grant and.
At San Francisco. Yeah, which department does it say?
Design, Professor Gojop, the Link.
Design, so that would be the design and industry. The Dai group.
There the like, the product designers.
Yeah.
Yeah, that one's more about online meetings.
How exciting! There's there's a really interesting VR tool.
That will teach people teach people how to do it, think it's called virtual speech, or something like that training for training for professionals.
They basically sell this application to businesses who have. They're like their executives or managers who have to do speeches, especially public speeches, and they want to put them in an environment.
So they're they're more used to the kind of distractions that might happen, and they get a chance to practice and get some feedback as well as data about how their speech is going.
How many filler words are using? What's your speech?
Other kinds of things that might be of interest. To someone who's doing a public public speaking situation.
One of one of the students in this program talk to them about 2 years ago, because she was teaching speech classes at the community colleges.
So you wanted to use it with our class. This is during the pandemic.
So she got special permission to use their product for I think it was for one class, for one semester, as a way of trying it out.
And you know pretty pretty powerful tool to give people the better, more, more of an experience.
Hope public speaking when they're especially teaching learning in an online space rather than you know the rely on zoom presentations which are a bit unreal.
Okay.
Okay. Alright. Then there was a couple of videos to watch any comments about the videos.
If you haven't had a chance to watch them. There's a couple of really good ones there.
Yeah, you probably would be interested in seeing.
So talkative tonight.
Well, I know how to make a talk. I'll get you to talk, don't make you talk.
I can't make you talk. Encourage your. You're talking to each other.
What we'll do is maybe give you a project to work on.
So let's before we do that, let's take a break.
So we don't have to interrupt an activity with a break.
Let's just take a 5 min. Break oh, and we'll start back at 7, 51 Pacific time.
Okay, I have my time. I'm gonna start.
So welcome, back, so we're shifting gears here.
There's a couple of things that you can do that in the agenda.
There is this place called Shake Space. Anyone use the jigspace app.
You put it in the chat window oops. I think they just turned the chat window off.
It's linked in the agenda as well.
So one of the things you could do in you're gonna we're gonna work in breakouts for a few minutes is to take a look at this jigspace app.
Let me put this into the into the breakout room. Notes. I'm opening up the breakout room notes as well.
It's they're posted in the first module, right as they always are.
Let me put that link in the chat window as well, so you can take a look at this what I want you to do is explore what you could possibly do with VR.
AR some sort of extensive extensible reality. Xr.
You know, mixed reality, whatever it might be, in your particular situation. And the reason why is because I don't think there's anybody who's working in any situation.
Where some of this wouldn't be useful. That doesn't mean just because it's it could be useful.
Doesn't mean you'd have to use it right.
Obviously there's gotta be a rationale for that.
But I think you know, if you've done a little exploration around this, I think you can see that there's a lot of this that could be very powerful to support learning a lot of the ways that we're trying to do.
It may not be right away, but what are the possibilities?
Do you think that could actually work for you in your in your place, in your context?
I mean, if if you're in a you know classroom context, you may already know.
Hey! Hey! There! In my, in the discipline I teach, or in at the level I there's a lot of resources available.
I just don't know how to use them. I have never used them or I don't have the resources, so what would it take?
Well, maybe it's just a resource limitation. Maybe it's a time limitation.
I gotta do some discovery, and then finds, you know.
Then convince somebody that it's worth, you know, supporting.
But you can also do with simple apps like this. This is an augmented reality.
App that you can use to. You can create objects in here, but you can also use their library of objects just as a way of playing around with it.
You need a phone you need a I think you need a flat surface for it to kind of put something there, and you can explore these objects and think about how that might simple things like that.
There may be some. There are lots of other AR apps.
Some that can throw spiders in different places and have them walk around, and you know surprise people and things like that.
So in the group though I want you to think about what you could do.
What would it take? What would be the rationale? Why would you?
Why would you do this? So what do you think would matter?
So if you can come up with a hey? An app, you know an application that you know, either for everyone's place or, for, you know, pick a pick a space oops, and I'm gonna be formatting this.
While we're working on this. Let's talk about that for a little bit.
And let's do a little report. Back that way. I'm I think I'm listening too much to myself to talk tonight, but let's get you guys talking to each other.
Let's see how many people are we having here?
Let's see, where's my tool?
7, so we will do. 1, 2, 3, we'll do 3 groups, and so it will be 2 groups of 2 and one group of 3.
And we'll just do this randomly again, with 3 groups.
That's probably good, and we'll come back together and do a little debrief.
So roughly 20 min you can come up with an example or link to something, you know.
Resource that might be useful. You can talk about how this tool might be useful for somebody that'd be very helpful I'll check in with you in about 20 min and see how all that's going, and we'll we can take a little bit more time.
If we need it but if we don't need more time, we won't take more time.
So there was a history section. So I think he's gonna have fun with it.
Okay. So we're back on the record. We've had.
I don't know. 20 min, 25 min to sort of look through this lot of notes on there, and I'd like to hear from everybody.
We'll go group by group, and so you can talk.
You can obviously talk about what you discussed as a group, but I'd like to have everyone had given everyone a chance to talk about their specific context.
Cause. I think it can't apply to everyone of us, and you can.
Probably be wrong. But the first group act was Group 3. So let's start with Group 3.
So I'll talk about the first part. So what could you do?
So we discussed, like in case of language, learning, or like knowing their cultural heritage, are attending a festival that you cannot call during that time.
I think it will be something helpful to use, and I have posted a video link like kind of like those kind of festivals where it might not be possible for everyone to attend.
Okay.
I was just rolling over it. That's the Youtube screen.
Yeah, yes. So, yeah, and okay, so and like, tracing the learners in the like, real environment without being uncomfortable.
Like, what they're actually going to do.
So they can practice like without being uncomfortable, like.
And also for kids. It's from my personal experience I know someone who would not get into the bus without without mom.
For a field trip, because he's scared. So these are.
Hmm!
This could be another option to join the classmates, to experience the like, to have the field experience without being fearful of being there without paying. So, Linda, would you like to go for the next one?
Yeah, sure. Thank you. So I kind of mentioned this. Oh, and Dr.
Peter came into our room a little bit so serious Sam point or viewpoint is like a heavily like from a teacher.
Standpoint or educator standpoint, and as a parent for me, somebody who's not in education and field like when we, when I first got the prompt and I was first thinking, I was like, Okay, my first call was like, Why not?
Why can't we use this? Obviously for teachers? There's a different reasons why they it might like a lot of hurdles, go through.
They have a lot of think about the how how they're gonna utilize it, how kids are gonna reacted to it for all that.
But for me, as somebody who works for corporate. I'm like funding is the only issue here.
What else can we do? Maybe security. So our thought, trained, went a little bit different, and it was interesting to see her.
Our differences in terms of our we saw different users of it, too, but to you know, what can we use?
Is for this program is, it was great to see I was very generally impressed with it, and I see I work for a semiconductor company, which is, we develop computer chips or microchips, or whatever.
And you know we have a designated team that works and that in terms of designing, and who in who communicate with the cost our clients, customers, and they go over specs over and over again, or just to kind of market it to our customers, or you know of customers separate
requests in terms of how to use it, or if they want to customize it, they, what I'm saying is, they have this in a team, so I can see that team utilizing this, you know, you know, very useful way.
So that way, you know, custom customers can't see our product without actually having the product in their hand, and you know, and I saw how it goes like 3, 60 to it, and it shows like a real size of it, too.
So I thought that was like, it's gonna be very useful for them as well in terms of product marketing.
What would it take? I kinda generalize it, you know.
You know the users or the educators need to get trained how to use a program from top to bottom without that.
How we're gonna do it right? And you know, maybe funding that's for everybody.
Either you're in school or corporate fund without funding.
This is not probably not gonna be able to happen, and in order to do that, you know, advocating the pros of it, how we can utilize this to educate people or students or the clients.
And what can we utilize to for best of our interested in both sides, and and hopefully get support from either school or even higher government, meaning, like State or Federal level as well?
So that kind of funding might be very useful to do.
I think Cedar kinda touched on the what could be irrational, you know.
Feeling safe in an environment, feel proof and even if you kind of go, you know, walk through it.
It's like a stepwise I saw, I thought, like 2 examples of it, so it's like a very step by step guide to us.
So, you know, even if who knows, anyway? Sorry, like ramping?
Now let me keep going so and say they brought a great point of you know, more accessibility for learners with disability.
They can experience like remote, you know.
I think this kind of ties back to your festival videos.
I think, Cada, when you said that. So?
Alright!
Yeah, wouldn't it? Wouldn't it be interesting if someone could join in one of these field trips like with their goggles?
And or something, and they would be able to kinda have of that live stream that immersive video experience.
You know that 3 60 video experience. But they could actually look around.
I don't know if that's available yet, you know.
Kind of the live streaming. 3 60 video piece. Even possible.
Wouldn't necessarily need a headset to do that.
You would need to have the 3 60 camera that someone's actually has with them.
Maybe if they have above them on the as they're walking through there.
But if you could get that to be something for a live experience, and you could have some sort of other other audio and video connections there that could really make it feel more like being there, even though the person wasn't there.
I initially thought about oculus I mean, that's okay. This is what that's designed to do it right?
But no, everybody has. So you have a point.
It's designed to do that kind of live, streaming thing.
I believe so. I mean, it's for more of a gaming.
Yeah.
I will say it's giving you some more gaming.
But they. I see a couple of videos where people are like going in there wearing oculus and the butt in what they're seeing is they're like doing phishing.
And then they just literally look around. It's that world. So.
Yeah, anyways, there's a lot of, I think there's a lot of potential, especially as computing power thanks, to semiconductor companies and other people gets even more powerful.
They can do more calculations essentially more. Ones and zeros being added up, had.
We can do more things with it, and you know some, you know.
So other promises of higher speed. Bandwidth, too, different kinds of panels, 5.
Yeah.
G. I just heard some one of them on the company talking about 10 G.
Now, I think it's just a marketing thing. But what would that be?
That's great!
10 g. Is twice as good as 5G.
I guess.
Alright, the rest of you just sitting there. Questions. Do you have any comments? You can ask each other questions too?
I can just wait for your turn to go.
Alright! Let's go to Room 2. This would be Adam and Amanda.
Let me find it. It is!
Thank you. Group 3.
So we kind of talked about stuff I talked about in my presentation.
It sounds familiar, then.
But a little bit but it's a little bit we took a little bit more of a in-depth approach.
Once we were discussing to like the benefits of it being in the social, emotional sector, but I can talk about like kind of what we wrote down, and then I could speak further to what we talked cause we didn't write it all down because we kind of got into the conversation, but I can still, go through
it all. So the first things that we could do I talked about virtual field trips, lots of things could be done in virtual field trips with all 3, like all of the situations like where there's a virtual field trip to front-load students with information whether it's a virtual
field trip to show them ways to regulate or like places that can help regulate their emotions, whether it's a way to allow them to visually be able to understand the things they're reading about.
All kinds of different virtual field trips connected to taking over more, understand?
Like what the characters they're reading about are going through.
I talked about it in my presentation a bit, having a more immersive learning, experience.
For example, the World War. One trenches we read a scene in my class today where the main character is like lying face down in a trench.
I'm hoping that nobody notices he's alive, and that if somebody like falls onto him like he's gonna do what it takes to make sure that he's the one who is like alive at the end.
And so I think, being able to see like first hand, like we're not really first hand, like, I guess, like second hand hand.
That's not first hand on what the trenches were like.
They'd be able to really visualize more of the book in their head.
Because I know specifically, I really struggled with imagination while reading, I was struggling so much with reading that there was no way I was gonna like, put a picture in my head so anything that could very well give me a visual representation.
And the more detailed it was, the better it the more it helped me, so I can imagine.
This would really help my students. It would take what it would take would be like lots of funding potentially.
Grant applications and other forms of fundraising, because I would need to like, convince my Administration to like, let it happen on top of funding.
I would also need to make sure that somebody with its purchasing experience is able to purchase everything we need, whether it's hardware and software training onboarding anything that has to do with the the operation.
And like using like users, software of it. And then the other thing is like it needs to make sure.
I need to make sure it's like compatible, which is why I feel like compatible with like the technology we're using kind of like to what Dolphin was saying earlier about how a lot of his stuff wasn't working because of the meta situations.
So we would definitely. That's why I think it would take like a very experience like purchaser somebody who's not only experienced in purchasing, but experience in our technology like really well, so that they could understand like what are the things that we can offer through our wi-fi and what
things we can't otherwise it's gonna just be that huge headache that's gonna go left money spent on things we're not using.
If you scroll down a little bit to what the rationale was specifically, it could help with regulating the reasoning.
I don't know like your guys' experience like with middle schoolers, but they've always been like, prone to larger behaviors because they're going through like really uncomfortable time.
And they feel very under like not understood, so I don't know if you guys know, but like now, since they were like stuck inside with like people, they don't realistically like that much, or they don't like, because they feel like they don't like them being quarantine for the period of
time that they were quarantined, has, like added to the uncomfortability of being a middle schooler in general, and being a preteen and teenager.
So the emotions that we're seeing are higher, and the apathy that we're seeing for behaviors.
And like consequences, is, raise it rising. So I think, using this as a source of being able to like integrate it with our curriculums.
I was talking to Adam about how I started. Quarter 3, which was this last quarter that just ended with a self-confident, not unit.
But like lesson at that beginning of every day, we would talk about breathing exercises.
We would talk about like brain dumping in a journal.
We would talk about just like different things that can help them.
Kind of reset before class, and I was telling Adam that something that would be very helpful for my students.
Beginning of the year before all the behaviors, and before the apathy starts is like creating a space where students don't have to come in anxious to class and they're able to.
Maybe the beginning of our units before we even start the self care unit like they get to come in and like, spend time in their safe or peaceful place.
And that's something that we create to, or that we learn through those VR field trips like they get to learn like what those places are looking like.
That's individual to them. And then, later on, in the year since, it's such an integral, integral part of our classroom environment instead of being like, get out of my class like, you're sorting my class like I could always be like, Hey, sit go ahead and put your head down and like go
to your peaceful place for a few minutes, and like when you're ready and like you, feel like more calm like, you can come back to the lesson and kind of a stuff like just being able to.
They, I think the virtual reality will really start to be and then, if they're struggling with even putting themselves into that virtual space, like in their head, like they could always grab that the materials in class that could help them visual, like the like actually visualize it because they're looking at
it it. That was like the majority of what we talked about was just kind of like exposing them to things that could very well help them.
Then we also talked like a little bit before we got into like that.
Before we got into that tan, not tangent, but like Spot, like really deeply.
I also talked about how it could front load knowledge. And that's really important.
And it's an engaging way to front loan knowledge and an engaging way to experience things that they wouldn't otherwise be able to experience.
Thank you, Adam. What do you have to add?
Hmm!
Yeah, I think one thing that we realize this, like the potential of this for social, emotional learning, that we don't often, I think there's more attention to it, both for adult learners and for you know, K, 12 early learners of of just that students aren't really able to access content if
they aren't able to like their feelings of motivation and their attitudes towards learning is like essential in order for them to actually take on the learning itself.
And so using virtual reality and extended reality for social, emotional learning, just as a he, a lot of promises for this I was even telling Amanda that I have a good friend who works for a mindfulness app that is starting to explore virtual reality.
To, help, even facilitate, more, a more like in-depth mindfulness. Experience.
So I think that there is potentially something we're not talking about when it comes to engagement is like, before you actually talk about engagement.
Of, you know, instructional content of like, just like students engagement on like a social emotional level is really critical.
And this could be a a helpful starting point, too.
That's true. I was just typing in here in the chat, you know, the neuroscience field has.
You know, there's a they have a lot to say about the impact of emotional states and various things.
On the whole, biochemistry of the brain and and the impact on thinking ability.
Right stressful people think differently than unstressed people.
The kind of learning that we want students to do in schools typically better done in not a stressed environment, right?
There are some things that are better learned in a stressful environment, especially when you're going to be experienced things in a stressful environment.
But that's a different thing. And so this idea of using a VR space to do this would just actually pretty interesting.
I don't know if anyone was doing that yet, and, Amanda, to your point about all the startup stuff.
There are companies out there that for price will kind of work with a school and help it.
Launch this with technology with curriculum, with VR spaces, all that stuff.
But they're they're not gonna be cheap.
They would be something that probably would be funded by grant funding, like you mentioned before.
Or maybe maybe Governor and some will open up some funds for we are in public schools.
Tell me get elected? I don't know. Maybe.
Thank you.
Alright, thank you. Guys more. Anything more. Any other questions from the rest of you.
Okay, well, let's move up to group the group. One that's left there's like pages of notes here.
Okay. Group one, what do you have?
Yup, Rico! And ever do you guys wanna go first and I'll talk about my screenshots.
Yeah, I I really enjoyed doing the one that was about the bees and a pollinator.
I was wondering as a preschool teacher, how can I actually use this technology with kids?
Because sometimes it's not that easy with little kids, but this one I was like, if I had this when I was back in Mexico teaching, I would totally use it, and kids will be totally engaged and interested.
And even Dawson mentioned, how like if there are kids that are afraid of these, they can have them right in front of them.
And zoom it out and like, learn about them without being scared.
That was my favorite part of during this.
Yeah.
Was this using the app? Yeah. Okay, cool. I didn't know there was a be in there, but that, you know, that'd be kind of fun, especially for kids. I think.
And I was mentioning how it's good to use as a supplement to real world training.
I was reading how airline pilots, you know, when they're being trained there.
The VR simulation doesn't train the. It doesn't.
They don't do as well as they would have.
As excuse me using it as a supplement.
And so with that I checked out a chess, a chess simulation through the app, and it was showing me different moves, and I was thinking I would like to have a chess set in front of me, so I could do it myself.
You know that kinda reminded me of that, like, if I was to read it out of a book.
I don't wanna just read it out of the book.
I wanna also be doing it. So I think the doing it part of being R.
Is it you? Do you get to do it? To?
Still, though I can agree that it'd be nice to see things, how they are outside of the VR.
And I don't know. I guess I'm a little bit skeptical about VR. In general, just because it's just a little skeptical, I guess.
I think that's one of the reasons why we wanna focus on rationale.
So if you could. If you had, chess that's available, and people could sit and play chess, you know, and you could get the same experience doing that.
Well, that seems to be the better choice, right? But if that's not always available well, clearly this could get you partway there, at least it may not be the same, but maybe it's better than nothing that's one way to think about it.
Another thing about another, part of the rationale might be.
There is. Well, what if you wanted to overlay some instructional stuff or another layer of data on top of that chessboard?
It's really hard to do in like real, real life.
But in a, in a virtual space or an augmented reality space, you might be able to include that, so that my experience of playing chess, maybe there is a physical board there, but maybe I'm also seeing you know, maybe a history of moves from these positions right?
Or my own, maybe my own history of moves, and how that worked out before, or whatever it might be.
So that could be part of the rationale. For why, this is actually augmenting with something that's positive and meaningful as opposed to just just cool technology.
Yeah, I could see that with having a recording of your past moves.
And to see progress over time, and how those moves can be, you know, done differently.
So I think it's like a tutor, you know.
Right, yeah.
You have.
Okay.
Oh, can I build that tutoring point? That's the the arrows.
A little help a little bit with this right? So the arrows kind of guide you through the experience.
But I think it's still a little bit. I mean, I think it's really neat. It's really cool.
You can show a lot of things. So I think, paired with an instructor in the room, or virtually, I think these AR experiences can be really powerful.
I find myself studying motors, because that's one of the things I teach with my students.
And it's a very tricky one to teach, but I could pull up a motor and like, take my phone and put it inside the motor to show the coils a wire and things like that.
So I like the idea of like sort of going inside things, or like the, you know, having a heart.
I thought this was mentioned in one of the videos for the reading like, Were you?
You take the heart, you make it super huge, and then you go inside to see, like the different chambers in the heart of that kind of thing, and to say like where blood goes, I think that's that's a really you know, I think there's some real learning that happening. There especially seeing it.
For the first time, but I think it's still there's still an opportunity there to like.
Yeah.
Have users do something or manipulate something besides just the arrows or clicking and zooming in, and I just haven't come across some, I guess Jigspace allows you to maybe make that the experience and customize it.
But I would like something that was a little bit more readier, made.
Yeah, yeah, it's?
Ready made, so you don't have to make it in, you know something. Read me. That's a perfect for your class, and exactly how you wanna say.
Right? That's the challenge. Yeah. This came up in my adaptive learning paper, too.
It's like, well, you know Duolingo takes. Is it a huge amount of effort to make something like do a lingo like I can't make dooling it for my class, you know.
Yeah, what about, you know, you know, we saw what the descript app last week.
Yep.
Adam does that you talked about that? Right? Yeah. So what if you had a technology where you you could put in your own script and have an audio read while they're going through here?
So you could basically do that, and it's so easy for you to edit.
You know, all you'd have to do is do text editing, and you could make you could change it because the AI knows your voice.
This is this is Dalton teacher Voice, working with with his students and so mixing some of these tools together, I think, is eventually gonna end up at some point.
That might make it more, you know, customize easily customizable, which means a teacher could do it just like they would edit a lesson plan.
Yeah, I haven't done anything make trying to make one of these jigspace projects, but I do like the fact that you could step through it.
But as I was stepping through it I was thinking well, I know a little bit about what I'm looking at here so I understand why they're showing this.
But if I didn't know anything about it, this is oh, this is another piece of this.
I think I was looking at the jet engine. I need more information about that. So how can I get a little bit more information at that point when I'm actually looking at exploring at my desktop?
Yeah, you know, for instance, like the solar panel one, you know, it would be really nice if you could select things like a cloudy day right?
And see the drop in voltage, like in a graph or something like that, where you have a little bit of active input and it's seeing the change because I think they're doing that in some some VR and AR things right like in science, like you you do a reaction and then you could measure the temperature.
Yeah, yeah, Simulated environment simulated lab environments. Yeah, there's a couple of there are some companies that make these simulated lab environments.
There's also there's a free website I don't know if you've ever heard of this one.
It's called. It's called Ph. E. T.
Let me put it in the chat. And it's basically physics, chemistry, other kinds of science, even math simulations or science, biology.
Yeah, there, you go. I mean, very simple, very limited. Right?
Very simple, but graphics and things like that. Not that rich at all, but the fact that you can do with that stuff is really amazing.
And it's at the point where. Yes, someone else builds it and you can use it for free you. Don't. You do a solar energy project with your students?
I think you talked about that in one in one cloud.
Yeah, I talked about another class.
Yeah, it'd be kinda it would be kinda nice to have you know, things that would wrap up kind of wrap all together that allow that kind of flexibility for what it's.
Right. The next level will be something like you. Make the house right.
You put it somewhere globally that matches latitude and longitude, and then you can see the angle of the sun.
That kind of thing and then optimize the solar angle of the solar panel on the roof.
Then that's like full onics, learning experience. There's objectives where there's goals, there's optimization.
That's right, and then you you could follow one of the little photons coming from the sun through the atmosphere, hit that path and see what actually happens.
How is that generating that electricity? And where does it go to power?
I don't know your computer or something to charge your phone, or whatever it might be.
Okay, yeah. So you could do, you can do a lot. You can do.
I mean, there's a lot of potential here, but you know, it's development, right?
It takes the time and energy, and none of it. None of it's really free.
Someone's paying a cost to develop that. And the question is, who bears the cost?
You know, in a lot of school situations we kind of are looking for other people to bear the cost although we often will assume some of the costs then, in learning how to use the technology or modifying it to fit our specific needs and etc.
But our students pay a cost right? They cost.
But learning how to use the technology. Sometimes they have to invest in the technology, sometimes they have to invest in the technology.
Sometimes they have to invent. They're giving away their data in some way.
Whatever it might be, and so you know, none of this is really free.
So that's important to be able to understand. Where are the what are the cost factors, and who's burying them?
And you know what matters. It might be the fact that you know.
So what if you know they're tracking our data on our using this?
There's nothing to happen. Nothing's happening. That is.
Well, you know. Possibly you know, sensitive, or, you know, damaging, or puts our data.
You know, our financial data at risk, or whatever it might be, something to go through.
Okay. Alright. Well, the discussion for this week is, I think, the last thing.
Let's just talk about that for a minute. Let me let me pull this up again.
Let's see. Oh, post it up here, then I'll bring it.
What this is. Basically this discussion is gonna extend what we were just talking about.
So think about it a little bit more in your particular context, in terms of you can make sure you're adding your contacts.
You could talk about the same thing you were just talking about here.
If you want to, you can add, you can do it completely different direction.
But think about using extended reality right? These Xr technologies to increase engagement and learning process.
Maybe a little bit more specific, maybe specific examples, technologies.
If you've already posted something into into the Google document, and you'll like that, you wanna run with that.
You can put your forum post in here as well. That will give everybody else an opportunity to give you feedback rather than just me or a couple of your colleagues.
Think about that. Think about the engagement challenges. So right now, we're thinking about this in terms of not of not as content creation.
But it's an engagement experience engaging students in the learning process.
And it may be indirectly contributing to the learning process kind of the social, emotional.
It has an impact on look, but it's not directed specifically at content.
Usually it's setting up the conditions under which learning can happen with then content, etc.
So that would be more. I would call. It center a little bit more indirect but you could also look at direct engagement content, which is what some of the other examples are showing. How do I pull this apart?
But it back together again. Okay.
Alright!
Dr. B. I had one question. This may be, is like for next class, but I was also at some point we like to find what we mean by engagement in the topic of this unit, like, I feel like engagement can mean so many things as small as like what am I now talking about like accessing
content from like a social emotional level to actually like like keeping students in their seats, to getting deep.
And I like as we think about like what we want to present on it would be helpful to think about like, what is an engagement technology and what isn't.
Or I know these all overlap as well.
It's messy, so I would say that engagement is when we talk about engagement.
I want to think about engaging students in their learning process, and so that you can. You?
That's pretty broad. It could be like you could be the emotional preparation to learn right, because if I if I'm not in a right emotional state or a psychological state, I mean, I'm not gonna engage you know, if I'm completely distracted about something
else. And I'm just not tuning in at all.
I am not going to be engaged, so engagement can be attention, you know, getting the tension could be preparing for that.
It could be this, it could be that it could be focused on the learning process that they're following through.
So adaptive learning systems, you know, can be. You can consider those engagement tools as well.
Why? Because they are. They are using what we know about the you know, from learning sciences.
The patterns of engaging with content, content, right to engage students in the learning process.
So the adaptive learning systems at one level are developing are providing content.
That's a customized content set, that's you know.
Cause that kind of fits in our last little bin of the framework, but they're also designed to keep the student engaged in that process to keep their attention to get their attention, to give them review, you know, to give them feedback.
To, you know. Kind of give them positive feedback as well as perhaps some negative feedback.
Okay.
When they needed those kinds of things. So the learning process, okay, very broad.
Great.
And if you're if you wanna better answer I don't go to open aid.
Dot com log in and ask the question. We really it'd be interesting to hear what what the AI tool has to say about what is engagement in learning. I've no idea what they would say.
Okay. Alright. Well, thanks very much for your engagement.
In tonight's class and I look forward to seeing you online in the discussion and hopefully back.
Live not next week. Next week is spring. Break. Enjoy your time somewhere, maybe just at work.
But don't come here, no one will be here, and then I'll see you in 2 weeks, and I will talk like I said.
I will reach out to our my library, and who does the VR.
And find out what's available for us. I mean, if maybe you know, Wednesday evening is the best time, and they're available.
Maybe that would work since we've kinda have time reserved at some point for this, but if not, maybe I'll put a you know, like a call tricks out there to see well, what would be the best time for people alright have fun.
Take care bye, bye!
Okay.
Alright. Thank you.
Thank you.